<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Cinema and Memory</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/interview.css"></link>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/style.css"></link><script type="text/javascript" src="/javascript/interview.js"></script><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"></meta>
   </head>
   <body>
      <!--#include virtual="/inc/menuSSIInterview.html"-->
      <div id="boxes"><label for="person">Person<input type="radio" id="person" name="selector"></input></label><label for="title">Title<input type="radio" id="title" name="selector"></input></label><label for="genre">Genre<input type="radio" id="genre" name="selector"></input></label><label for="nationalCinema">National Cinema<input type="radio" id="nationalCinema" name="selector"></input></label><label for="place">Place<input type="radio" id="place" name="selector"></input></label><label for="epit">Epithet<input type="radio" id="epit" name="selector"></input></label><label for="persSing">Personal Singular<input type="radio" id="persSing" name="selector"></input></label><label for="persPlur">Personal Plural<input type="radio" id="persPlur" name="selector"></input></label><label for="possSing">Possessive Singular<input type="radio" id="possSing" name="selector"></input></label><label for="possPlur">Possessive Plural<input type="radio" id="possPlur" name="selector"></input></label><label for="collective">Collective <input type="radio" id="collective" name="selector"></input></label><label for="lex">Lexical Hesitation<input type="radio" id="lex" name="selector"></input></label><label for="nonLex">Nonlexical Hesitation<input type="radio" id="nonLex" name="selector"></input></label></div>
      <div id="rightPanel"></div>
      <div id="centerPanel">
         
         <h1>Interview with Mikhail Voronin</h1>
         <ul>
            <li>Interviewers: Jessica Parks, Emilie Clark</li>
            <li><a href="http://mtp.blogs.wm.edu">
                  Russian Movie Theater Project (RMTP)
                  </a></li>
            <li><a href="https://www.wm.edu">
                  College of William and Mary
                  </a></li>
            <li>Interview Date: July 2013</li>
            <li>Transcription and Translation Date: Fall 2013</li>
         </ul>
         <hr></hr>
         
         
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Today is the 29th of July, 2013. We’re in Saint Petersburg,
            Russia. My name is Jessica Parks, and my colleague is Emily Clark. Emilay and I are
            conducting an interview with Mikhail Voronin. We’re conducting an interview with you
            for a film project that analyzes the general, political, and cultural history of
            Russia through film. We would like for you to tell us about your memories of going
            to the movies and we’re particularly interested in the details. On the basis of your
            answers we will write an essay, in which we will analyze the results of the
            questionnaire and write about moviegoing in Russia. The goal of this interview for
            us is to learn as much as we are able about individual people and the place of the
            movies in their lives. Thank you very much for your readiness do share your memories
            with us and also for helping us. This interview will be added for listening on the
            film project’s website. If you’re not against it, then let’s begin.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Very good!</p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Tell us, where and when were you born?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I was born in <span class="place">the Urals</span>,
            in the city of <span class="place">Ufa</span>. It’s one of the cities with a
            million or more people, a sufficiently large city in <span class="place">Russia</span>. I spent the first fifteen years of my life there.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Where did your mom and dad work?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>My parents divorced when I was still a child. My mom
            worked as a stewardess, flew, in general around <span class="place">Russia</span>. Sometimes close by abroad.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What sort of education do you have?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Now I have a university degree. I finished the War College
            this year.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What cities have you lived in?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I lived in <span class="place">Ufa</span>, the
            capital of the <span class="place">Republic of
               Bashkirtostan</span>. I also lived in <span class="place">Moscow</span>
            for three years, in the capital of <span class="place">Russia</span>, and
            the last six I’ve lived in <span class="place">Saint
               Petersburg</span>, the <span class="epit">prettiest</span> city in my
            view.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you remember the first time you went to the movies?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>No, I don’t remember the first time. Poorly, I remember
            it poorly.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What kinds of movies did you watch?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Just as I started to go to the movies from childhood,
            everything was in chronological order. Starting with <span class="title">Rocky and Bullwinkel</span>, maybe you know, and ending with
            <span class="genre">horror movies</span>, <span class="genre">comedies</span>. Now, in principal, now I only rarely go to the movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How old were you?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I don’t remember, probably, it was first grade, seven
            years old. Seven or eight.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Who did you go to the movies with?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Who didn’t I go to the movies with! Who did I go with the
            first time? In general? I went to the movies with my mom, teacher, with almost all
            my girlfriends. I loved to go to the movies with friends, with a big group. Yes, in
            a big group and then after we’d loosened up a bit. I would, well, I can’t say this
            on the record what they usually loosen up with before going to the movies. Your
            people will understand.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How much did a ticket cost?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>A ticket cost, I don’t remember, a couple copecks. At the
            beginning…at the beginning when we were kids and had very little money of our own
            in
            our pockets, we went to the morning screenings, then it was cheaper. And afterwards
            at anytime. A ticket cost from, from one dollar, in your system, up to ten or twenty
            dollars.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What was the name of the movie theater. Describe the
            theater.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>The movie theater was called <span class="place">Iskra</span>. It designed at first in the Soviet style, in
            the old style. “Old School.” But then they renovated it, they did a great job, and
            now it’s a <span class="epit">modern</span> screening room, a whole
            lot of people go there, cinema is strangely popular in <span class="place">Russia</span> recently, and all the premieres are there, and all the stars go
            there, for example.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you walk or take transport?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Normally I drove, it was far enough from home, the
            nearest <span class="place">movie theater</span> from my house was
            twenty kilometers away.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did you get there?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Normally, at the beginning we took the bus, and later,
            when we were already grown up, we drove.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you have one or more movie theaters near home?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>No, near home there weren’t any <span class="place">movie theaters</span>. We exchanged VHS tapes, those old ones.
            But the movie theater was far from home. There were some theaters in the city, five
            of them at first. But now ten of them, I think.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Compare the movie theaters.</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>It’s a bit hard to compare them, because they’re all
            typical, similar to one another, all the <span class="place">movie
               theaters</span>. But there is a difference, in that...the <span class="place">movie theater</span> could be a freestanding building or in a
            shopping complex. But, as a rule, now all the <span class="place">movie theaters</span> we have are in shopping complexes.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>When did you start going to the movies alone?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I don’t remember how old, about 10.</p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you like going to the movies, and why?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I only liked going to the movies for <span class="genre">specific films</span>. I go only rarely just for that reason.
            Only for specific blockbusters, or some sort of well known premieres. Of well known
            directors or actors. My friends and I preferred to go out, to play soccer or
            hockey.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How often did you go to the movies? To which showings? The
            morning ones, afternoons, evenings?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, to different ones. When we wanted, then we went. As
            children we went to the morning ones, and then when we grew up, it’s cold in <span class="place">Russia</span> and in order not to freeze we went to the
            movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Going to the movies, was it a special occurrence or a
            regular one?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>As a child maybe it was something special, but now, to go
            to the movies…we think that going to the movies is better than doing something. If
            you have nothing better to do, you know, right, no better way to spend your time,
            you can go to the movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did going to the movies change when you grew up or
            finished school?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Well it became less interesting, less captivating. They
            simply started being downloaded on the internet.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What were your favorite genres as a child?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p><span class="place">Comedy</span>, from early
            childhood, is my favorite genre, <span class="place">comedy</span>, I also
            liked <span class="genre">war movies</span>, and now I prefer some sort of
            <span class="genre">melodramas</span>, or ones based on real
            events.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What were your favorite genres when you were in
            college?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p><span class="genre">Porno</span>, of course. Of
            course <span class="genre">porno</span>, it's true you don’t need to change
            anything, it’s that way for all Russian students. And then <span class="genre">war movies</span> and <span class="genre">comedies</span>.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you have a favorite movie?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, I think I have a few favorite movies. I’ve simply
            watched a lot of movies, the last movie, that left an impression is called <span class="title">Mavericks</span>…or <span class="title">Укротители волн 1</span> in Russian. It’s a bad translation, with <span class="person">Gerald Butler</span>. “Maybe,” but maybe you know it.
            Why did I like it? It’s based on true events.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you have favorite actors or actresses in from foreign
            cinema? Who and why?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes. Sure favorite actors. Why? Why, I don’t know. <span class="person">Charlize Theron</span>, for example. Yes, <span class="person">Charlize Theron</span>, and, well <span class="person">Johnny Depp</span>, he’s good, particularly in <span class="title">Pirates</span>. Secondly, maybe <span class="person">Jim Carrey</span>, yes, <span class="person">Jim
               Carrey</span>. Particularly in <span class="title">The Mask</span> and <span class="title">Ace Ventura</span>, the best of his work. <span class="person">Murphy, Eddie Murphy’s</span> a smart alec. But he also
            did stuff.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you remember any movie or outing to the movies
            particularly? Talk about that visit.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>No. I don’t remember specific outings to the <span class="place">movies</span> in particular. I remember movies
            better, which you remember your whole life. The <span class="title">Godfather</span>, “Godfather.” And also a Russian serial, maybe you’ve seen it,
            <span class="title">The Brigade</span>. The Russian serial <span class="title">Brigade</span>, and the Russian movie <span class="title">Brother</span> and <span class="title">Brother 2</span>.
            “Brother and Brother 2.” Well, yes, I think there’s a few more movies, but yes, <span class="title">Life is Beautiful</span>. “It’s a Beautiful
            Life.” The Italian movie. Maybe I messed up the tile. The Italian movie. Many of the
            films watched with my friends come highly recommended by Internet Movie Data
            Base.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did you spend your free time apart from going to the
            movies?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Went out, played soccer and hockey. I think very
            typically, just like all teenagers, who have free time and who are able to buy
            something forbidden for themselves.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Who did you normally go to the movies with?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Normally either with guys or with girls. We go very
            rarely in a mixed group. As a rule, it’s either only boys or girls. “Only boys or
            only girls.”
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>More men or women?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Who go to the movies? Oh I don’t know, probably more
            women But most likely since we have more women in general.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>In general, did people go to the movies more often with
            family or with friends or girlfriends?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, no more girls go to the movies, because it gives
            them something to do. There, families go rarely, on the weekends, families go to the
            movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Were there lines in the <span class="place">movie theaters</span>? Do you remember waiting in line?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, but very rarely. There were very rarely lines. Five
            minutes maximum.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did different groups sit in different parts of the movie
            theater?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Different groups? Well, when, how. In different places,
            there were, there weren’t places, some there were, <span class="persPlur">we</span> were able to lay down there and watch.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did people make noise, or were they quiet during the
            showing?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Ah, not always. That is while watching some showing, <span class="persPlur">we</span> would make noise.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did people dress for the movies? Atypically or like
            normal?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>In different ways. For many going to the movies, it’s a
            special event. Particularly for girls looking to show off, and <span class="persSing">I</span> don’t know how, they’re able to dress in stockings,
            thin ones, to wear high heels, it’s not comfortable, it’s stupid, but in order to
            be
            especially good looking. The guys dressed normally.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you know people who worked at the movie theater?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, I know a couple. And as it was they could go for
            free.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What was the atmosphere like in the theater?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>It depends. At <span class="genre">horror
               movies</span> it’s usually <span class="epit">fun</span>, because <span class="persPlur">we</span> go to <span class="genre">horror movies</span> with our girlfriends and at the most grueling moment, we
            scare them but good. <span class="lex">Well</span>, just to laugh.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Describe the movie theater, and if possible, compare it
            with movie theaters today.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I really don’t know how to describe it. There’s a big
            screen there, it’s dark and loud.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Describe the sounds and smells that you remember when you
            think about the movie theaters.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>The smell of popcorn. <span class="persSing">I</span> think sound, a <span class="epit">strong growing sound</span>.
            With a strong base.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Were the chairs comfortable?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Then how, usually yes, <span class="epit">usually
               comfortable</span>.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Was it cold at the movies, warm, hot, stuffy?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>That also depends, sometimes the air conditioning didn’t
            work, and sometimes it worked too well.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Was the movie theater big? How many screening rooms were
            there?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>When, it was<span class="nonLex">...</span>There were from two to
            fifteen screening rooms, <span class="persSing">I</span> think that sounds
            right. But individual seats from 50 to 300. Up to 300 individual seats, they were
            different.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Was the theater only for movies, or for other events
            too?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Sometimes for other events, but generally only for
            movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Was there a snack bar? What did they sell at the snack
            bar?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>They always sold popcorn, Pepsi, and soda at the
            snackbars, and beer too. And there was something to eat. Ice cream. “Ice cream.”
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Were there ticket collectors in the theater and how old
            were they usually?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Well there were always ticket collectors, generally it
            was young people. Generally it was young girls, up to thirty.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Where did you usually like to sit and why?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>That depends on who you go to the movies with. With
            friends we normally sat in the middle, in order to see better, but with girls
            normally off to the side. Places for kissing.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Were the movies silent or talkies? Black and white or
            color?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>They were always color, always had sound, with the
            exception of special films, not special ones, but when it was the desire of the
            director. If in all the <span class="place">movie theaters</span> of
            the world it black and white and silent ones cropped up, then <span class="possPlur">we had</span> it too. But all the others were color, with
            sound.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What was the quality?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>The quality was excellent. And many <span class="place">theaters</span> now are in 3D, IMAX format. <span class="persSing">I’m</span> just not a huge fan of recent cinema, I’m only there
            rarely, there’s no time.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Which movies were the most popular among viewers and
            why?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Among viewers, the most popular films were, <span class="persSing">I</span> think<span class="nonLex">...</span> those that were
            advertised well. Russians have this habit, to go to popular, cheesy movies, if the
            advertising is good, then a lot of people go to the movies. If they like the movie,
            then they tell friends, and their friends go. And <span class="persSing">I</span> think, almost all the movies, and that are popular in America, are also
            popular in America. How it generally is in the world, it’s decided by ratings.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did the often show foreign films in the movie theaters?
            Films from which countries?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>They’re almost always foreign films, because after the
            collapse of the <span class="place">Soviet Union</span>
            <span class="possPlur">we</span> didn’t make many movies. There, but now,
            they show both <span class="nationalCinema">foreign movies</span> and
            <span class="possPlur">ours</span>, from all countries, from
            absolutely all counties, but in general, of course, it’s <span class="nationalCinema">American movies</span>, in general, because they’re <span class="epit">the most abundant</span>. <span class="epit">Most easy</span> to get ahold of.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Which movies did you like most of all?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Most of all, I liked, “well,” while I was growing up, as
            a child <span class="genre">fairy tale movies</span>, and then <span class="genre">war movies</span>, and then more <span class="genre">melodramas</span>. Depends. As I feel like. That’s it.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Were there movies that children couldn’t go to and why?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, there were quite a lot of those kinds of movies,
            and now they’re restricted. Why? It’s important to everyone why. Because they
            contain scenes for adults. With the R rating, <span class="nationalCinema">your American one</span>, but the kids go in general. If they
            want.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Your parents didn’t let you go or the movie theater
            management?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>They didn’t let us, but <span class="persPlur">we</span> went anyway. And the <span class="place">theater</span> management didn’t prohibit us when <span class="persSing">I</span> was young, and now <span class="persSing">I</span> don’t now, <span class="lex">maybe, maybe</span> now
            they prohibit it.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you try to go to a movie that you weren’t allowed to
            go to?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Of course. And there, there was interest.</p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Talk about it, how it was.</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>It was easy because, <span class="lex">well</span>, in <span class="place">Russia</span>, when <span class="persSing">I</span> was little,
            they didn’t pay especial attention to age and didn’t follow the rules especially.
            Yes, and now, the main thing is to earn money. And it’s not important if a kid a few
            years younger goes into a movie for adults. The kid himself wants that.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you remember any film that had problems coming to the
            screen? Talk about that film.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>To be honest, <span class="persSing">I</span> don’t remember, because I wasn’t
            interested. If there had been problems, it simply wouldn’t have come to the screen,
            and no one would have seen it. Therefore <span class="persSing">I</span> don’t remember these movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did you find out about the theater’s schedule of
            screenings?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>About the <span class="place">theaters’</span> schedules? I found out either by
            advertising, by advertisement banners in the streets and on signs, or on the
            internet, on the <span class="place">theaters’</span> schedule. Or from friends, who had like some movie.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you read about movies in magazines or in the
            papers?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, but by accident, if it cropped up by accident. In
            Playboy, for example.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did movie advertising change from the Soviet
            times?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Hardly at all, the advertising just got better and
            better looking. It got bigger.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did your parents go to the movies?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Of course they went, my parents only went to the
            movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>What did they watch?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p><span class="persSing">I</span> don’t know, they didn’t talk about it much, <span class="persSing">I</span> think
            the same thing, but earlier almost all <span class="place">movie theaters</span> showed only Soviet movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>They went to the movies together with you, with one
            another, alone?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Well then, it depends. Either together and without me,
            that is, it didn’t depend on anything, on their mood, per their desire.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Did you have a television set?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes.</p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>When you bought it, did you go to the movies more or
            less?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Just the same.</p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you know when talkies first came out?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>No, I don’t know, I don’t remember, but long ago. Long
            ago, <span class="nonLex">...</span>after, <span class="nonLex">...</span> somewhere, the first sound films existed before the Second World War, I
            think, in <span class="place">America</span>. And after the Second World War we already had them in the
            <span class="place">USSR</span>.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you remember movies from during the war? After the war?
            During Perestroika?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, <span class="persSing">I</span> saw them, naturally, a bit later. <span class="persSing">I</span> went to the
            premieres. I wasn’t that busy. There, but then I saw a lot of movies, yes, they’re
            interesting enough. They all have their own style, that is, despite that there were
            many censored films, which the Soviet government prohibited to be shown and only now
            have they come to the screen. But, to be honest, I don’t really care for them.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>How did your going to the movies change with time and
            why?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>I rarely want to because there’s little time, and <span class="place">the
               movies</span> have already gotten old. Earlier it was something amazing and rare, <span class="lex">maybe</span>.
            Rarely, when you go only a little, does it capture your sprit. And now I feel like
            something new. Some kind of new enjoyments, but <span class="persSing">I</span> know many people, many of <span class="possSing">my</span>
            friends, who are in the habit of going to the movies, they just don’t know where
            else to go. For them it’s enough to go to the movies.
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Would you like to add anything in conclusion?</p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>In conclusion <span class="persSing">I</span> want to add<span class="nonLex">...</span>that I have to go to the
            movies somehow. <span class="persSing">I</span> haven’t been there in a while, and for <span class="title">Ironman 3</span>, “<span class="title">Ironman 3</span>, very
            good.”
         </p>
         
         <h3>Parks: </h3>
         <p>Do you have a suggestion for us regarding what theme to
            ask about in an interview in the future?
         </p>
         
         <h3>Voronin: </h3>
         <p>Yes, just not <span class="possSing">with me</span>!  With someone else.  Because <span class="persSing">I</span> can only say very little
         </p>
         
         
         
         
      </div>
   </body>
</html>